# React Js set up and Run the app
- Install Node js
  - Download stable node js version from https://nodejs.org/en/download/
- **NPM - Node Package manager**
  - To install npm, run this command npm install npm@latest -g
  - To install specific version use npm install npm@version -g (Here g stands for global)
  - Once you install node you will able to access npm
  - to check the version of npm
  - node -v
  - npm -v
  - JetBrains Rider uses the npm and yarn aliases for the current system paths to these managers.
- **Create React App**
  - It is an officially supported way to create single-page React applications. It offers a modern build setup with no configuration. 
  - Now install package create react app.
    - npm install -g create-react-app
  - Now create react app  
    - npx create-react-app my-app
  OR  
    - npm create-react-app my-app
    - npm create-react-app my-app --script-version 1.1.5
  - Now redirect to the my-app redirect, cd my-app
  - Now run npm start
  - now enter http://localhost:3000  
## Update Node version
- sudo npm cache clean -f (force) clear you npm cache
- sudo npm install -g n install n (this might take a while)
- sudo n stable upgrade to the current stable version
- 
## How to run and test the app
- **npm start :** Starts the development server.
- **npm run build :** Bundles the app into static files for production.
- **npm test :** Starts the test runner.
- **npm run eject :** Removes this tool and copies build dependencies, configuration files and scripts into the app directory. If you do this, you can’t go back
- Or you can use yarn also
- yarn start
- yarn build
- yarn test
- While running the npm is running, whatever the changes you will make. it will automatically reflect in http://localhost:3000
- If you want to cancel the execution of npm , CMD+C
## main components in react project
- **package.json**- you can call this is the main json file where all the dependencies, app version, react version used. You can open the project and see the content inside this file.
-  ```
          {
            "name": "1-hello-react",
            "version": "0.1.0",
            "private": true,
            "dependencies": {
              "@testing-library/jest-dom": "^4.2.4",
              "@testing-library/react": "^9.5.0",
              "@testing-library/user-event": "^7.2.1",
              "react": "^16.13.1",
              "react-dom": "^16.13.1",
              "react-scripts": "3.4.3"
            },
            "scripts": {
              "start": "react-scripts start",
              "build": "react-scripts build",
              "test": "react-scripts test",
              "eject": "react-scripts eject"
            },
            "eslintConfig": {
              "extends": "react-app"
            },
            "browserslist": {
              "production": [
                ">0.2%",
                "not dead",
                "not op_mini all"
              ],
              "development": [
                "last 1 chrome version",
                "last 1 firefox version",
                "last 1 safari version"
              ]
            }
          }
   ```
- After runine the create-react-app command, it automatically create a readymade project for you. which contains
  - **src :** Contains all the source code related files
  - **public**
  - **package-lock.json**
## Understanding Package structure 
**src** This folder actually contains the project source code and it contains few pre-generated files  
**app.css**  
**app.js**  
**index.css**  
**index.js**  gets access to the root element in our DOM. It contains render() method to draw the ui in the web broswer.  

**node_modules**  It contains all the dependencies and sub-dependencies of our project. Whatever dependencies you will add using npm install command, that folder will download and store inside node_modules.You should not edit any of the node module files.  
**public** It is the root folder which get served by the web server at the end.  
**Index.html inside public**  we can not write any html code here. 
manifest.json - it ocntains the meta data of our application.
**logo.svg** it is logo of react , which will be displayed after running the application.   
